What to look for in a review
============================

The overall purpose of reviews is to identify problems in the design and
its documentation. Once an item has been reviewed, the name of the
reviewer and the SVN revision of the file(s) that has/have been reviewed
should be recorded.

We don't have formal requirements on who can make a review and how
thorough a review should be, but as a rule of thumb, a reviewer should
a) at least feel to have understood the reviewed item by the end of the
review, and b) all the parts of the reviewed item should be examined.

The commands to visualize items and the location of files that record
the review status are described in GETTING-STARTED. The following sections
list things to check in a review.


Components (schematics symbols)
-------------------------------

Schematics symbols should be accurate renderings of the drawings in the
respective data sheets. In some cases, we depart from the reference for
consistency within the project or to avoid flaws in the data sheet.

- presence of an entry in the file components/INFO with a pointer to
  a data sheet. If no data sheet is available, we use Openmoko's GTA02
  schematics as a reference.

- the pin names (GPIOx, nRESET, etc.) match with the data sheet (as an
  exception, we correct inconsistencies and make sure inverted pins
  have a sensible name - usually nSOMETHING)

- pin/pad numbers match those in the data sheet

- the drawing is correctly done and conveys the purpose of the component

- pin types match what the data sheet says

- permanently inverted signals have a circle either inside the symbol
  or at its edge (examples: X74X1G00_5 and XRT9711_BD_5 in
  expanded/usb.sch)


Schematics and ECNs (Engineering Change Notices)
------------------------------------------------

The schematics are based on the Openmoko GTA02 design but numerous
changes have been made. The changes are documented in ECNs in docs/ecn/
ECNs have their own life cycle, described in docs/ecn/README

- equivalence to the respective circuit in GTA02, except if a change
  has been made through an ECN

- changes are marked with a comment briefly stating what happened and
  which ECN describes the change

- use of the same component references (R1014, etc.)

- use of the same component values and their correct presentation.
  The following conventions apply:

  - there be no spaces between numbers and units

    Note that this only applies to the schematics. In all other cases,
    we should follow SI rules and put a space between numbers and units,
    e.g., 33 Ohm and not 33Ohm.

  - SI prefixes ("k" for kilo, "M" for mega, "m" to milli, etc.) are
    written in their normal case. E.g., 100k is correct, 100K would be
    incorrect.

  - we use the ASCII alphabet. The Omega of "Ohm" becomes R.

  - "obvious" units are omitted, e.g., resistors, capacitors, and
    inductors don't have the R, F, or H. There is one exception: if no
    SI prefix is needed, we put the letter representing the unit.

    Example: 100n instead of 100nF, 10k instead of 10kOhm, but 33R (and
    not just 33) instead of 33 Ohm.

  - decimal points are replaced by the SI prefix, e.g.,
    1.2 V become 1V2

  - units of additional parameters and all units of components that are
    not R, C, or L, are written in regular SI or SI-like notation, e.g.,
    17.6pF, 5.6Vac

- wherever signals connect to each other, the intersection is T-shaped
  and is marked with a large dot. Connecting signals never intersect
  in a cross-shape.

- the drawing is clean, with adequate separation between elements, no
  overlaps, etc.

- signals routing is kept straight and simple. Labels are used where
  drawing the signals would result in visual confusion.


Footprints (modules)
--------------------

Footprints should be accurate renderings of the land patterns shown in
the respective data sheet or other document defining the footprint.

- presence of an entry in the file modules/INFO with either the name of
  the data sheet entry in components/INFO (if the data sheet contains
  the footprint), or a pointer to a document describing the footprint.

  Note that, with the exception of some BGAs, a footprint is not
  identical with the pads shown on case drawings.

  If no other source is available, the footprints Openmoko used in GTA02
  can serve as a reference:

  http://downloads.openmoko.org/developer/schematics/GTA02/gta02_outline_footprints_netlist.tar.bz2

  The Gerber files are best viewed with the "gerbv" program.
  
- presence and correct location of all pins/pads

- presence of the package outline and/or "keep out area" markings

- there are measurements for all the parameters shown in the reference
  material. The location of measurements may differ, e.g., the reference
  may measure a pin pitch at the upper left corner of the drawing while
  our footprint measures the same pitch at the lower side.


Layout
------

To do.


Reporting review results
------------------------

If a review was successful without further comments and you have commit
access, you can just add your name to the file recording reviews of the
respective item. It can't hurt to send a quick note to the gta02-core
list to let everyone know of the review.

In all other cases, please post the results to the list and appropriate
action will be taken.

Partially successful reviews can be recorded with a remark describing
the remaining flaw(s). If major changes are needed or if an item is
changed after review, a new review should be conducted.

Any questions that pop during a review should either be posted to the
list or asked on the #gta02-core IRC channel.
