ECN (Engineering Change Notice) Format
--------------------------------------

ECNs are ASCII descriptions stored in files with the name ecnNNNN.txt
where NNNN is a sequence number counting from 0000.

An ECN describes a change to the overall design, schematics, symbols,
footprints, or layout. The process described here aims to capture the
most important information about a change without creating a lot of
bureaucracy.


The ECN contains the following information:

- motivation for the change

- description of the change

- impact on other parts of the system (if any)

- history of the change


The ecnNNNN.txt file is formatted as follows:

- a title/summary, usually one line. When referring to components,
  this summary should use both descriptive terms and the references
  of key components. E.g., "Removal of the Glamo (U1801)"

- two blank lines

- main text, containing motivation, description of the change, and
  impact. Free-format. Paragraphs are separated by a single blank
  line.

- any references (URLs, other ECNs, etc.), follow the main text,
  separated by one blank line

- two blank lines

- history, including the following tags (multiple tags are possible):
  Author: real name <email>
  Review: real name <email>, revision, comment (optional)
  Commit: revision, summary

  E.g.,
  Author: John Smith <john@smith.net>
  Commit: SVN 6789, deleted the Glamo
  Commit: SVN 6791, removed *IVDD as well
  Review: Hans Meier <hm542@yahoo.com>, SVN 6791
  Review: Carl Ritic <critic@nih.il>, SVN 6791, kill B1801 as well
  Commit: SVN 6794, killed B1801

  Commit entries just need to make it possible to understand the
  sequence of events and to locate the commit in SVN. Further
  details can be put in the commit message.

  Long entries can be wrapped. The continuation lines are then
  indented. E.g.,

  Review: Eleftherios Panathinaikos
    <eleftherios.panathinaiko@glamoctology.university-hannover.de>,
    SVN 6791

If an ECN is accompanied by further material, pictures, drawings,
simulations, etc., a subdirectory called ecnNNNN/ should be
created for them.


ECN lifecycle:

- to allocate an ECN number, create the file ecnNNNN.txt, with NNNN
  one above the previously highest-numbered ECN, add the summary,
  then commit it in this directory

- fill in the remaining details, commit, and discuss on the list or
  on IRC. Changes made during discussion don't need to be recorded
  in the ECN's history section.

- once agreement has been reached, implement the change and let the
  reviews begin

If executing a change has to be deferred, e.g., because there is
disagreement or because further research is needed, that status
should be recorded at the end of the main text.

If an ECN is withdrawn, its number should not be reused.

ECNs can be edited any time, but if major changes are made to an ECN
after it has been implemented and reviewed, a new ECN should be
considered, and a pointer might be added to the main text of the old
ECN.

There should be a STATUS file similar to the one used for components.
Details to be defined.
The current STATUS file can use the following states:

- Edit: ECN is in the process of being written and not yet suitable for
  detailed review.

- Review: ECN is "finished" and open for review and/or research.

- Execute: ECN is being implemented.

- Defer: ECN will not be implemented in the current hardware revision
  but may be considered for future revisions.

- Cancel: ECN has been withdrawn or has been obsoleted by other
  changes.
